--- PAGE 1 ---

Computer 
Engineering
(NBA Accredited)
Computer Science & Engineering
(IoT & Cyber Security incl. 
Block Chain Technology)
Mechanical
Engineering
(NBA Accredited)
Information
Technology
Electronics &
Telecommunication
Engineering
(NBA Accredited)
Computer Science & Engineering
(Artiﬁcial Intelligence & 
Machine Learning)
Civil 
Engineering 
(NBA Accredited)
For Admission to First Year / Direct Second Year of 
Four Year Degree Courses of Engineering / Masters of Engineering
ANJUMAN-I-ISLAM’S
M. H. SABOO SIDDIK 
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
Advancing Knowledge, Building Careers
PROSPECTUS
2025-2026
Celebrating
Years of
ANJUMAN-I-ISLAM
Mechanical Engineering 
Automobile
ACCREDITED BY NAAC FOR 5 YEARS
Four Eligible Branches Accredited by NBA for 3 Years
DTE Code: En3183

--- PAGE 2 ---

THE FOUNDER
LATE MOHAMMED HAJI SABOO SIDDIK
The Mohammed Haji Saboo Siddik Institute (A Muslim Minority 
Institution) owes its existence to the muniﬁcence of late 
Mohammed, son of Haji Saboo Siddik, who bequeathed a 
large sum of money for establishing, conducting and 
managing this Institution for imparting Vocational, Technical 
and Industrial training and education. The value of the assets, 
so bequeathed, exceeded Rupees Three Crore at the time of 
donation.
The Institution is managed and administrated by the Anjuman-
I-Islam as the sole trustee, appointed by the Bombay High 
Court's decree and scheme framed and sanctioned 
thereunder.

--- PAGE 3 ---

A Warm Welcome!
The stream of engineering is an indisputable catalyst for social transformation, thrusting national progress and technical 
advancement worldwide. In today’s rapidly advancing engineering landscape, our mandate extends beyond traditional, 
discipline-speciﬁc undergraduate education, embracing a comprehensive as well as interdisciplinary approach that nurtures 
lifelong learning and holistic development among students —a vision Anjuman-I-Islam has championed since its inception, 151 
years ago. 
I take immense pride in India’s capacity to nurture world-class engineers, meeting both domestic and global demands for skilled 
professionals. Anjuman Islam’s M.H. Saboo Siddik College of Engineering has played a crucial role in shaping generations of 
talented engineers, contributing signiﬁcantly to the nation’s technical aptitude. In alignment with emerging industry trends and 
technological advancements, we are delighted to announce the introduction of new postgraduate program i.e. M.E. in 
Construction Engineering & Management. 
Our institute has achieved prestigious national-level accreditations from NAAC and NBA, reaﬃrming our strong commitment to 
excellence in teaching, learning, and infrastructure. We have state-of-the-art facilities and an academic environment that 
cultivates both professional and leadership skills, empowering our students to deliver impactful results in the industry. 
We have signed several new Memorandum of Understanding (MoUs) with leading global institutions, including a milestone 
partnership with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), USA, through the Abdul Latif Jameel World Education Lab 
(JWEL) programme. This collaboration brings MIT’s innovative educational frameworks to our campus, enhancing curriculum 
development, faculty training, and research opportunities. Another MoU has been signed with the University of Westminster. We 
are actively pursuing collaborations with the University of Maryland School of Pharmacy and Temple University, Philadelphia, 
further enriching our academic oﬀerings and global reach. 
Our distinguished alumni have continued to bring honour and accolades to the institution, holding prominent positions in 
renowned companies worldwide. Recent alumni gatherings in the USA, Canada and Qatar have further strengthened our global 
alumni network, and have fostered our professional connections while celebrating the achievements of our graduates. 
Our institution excels in delivering quality education, supported by distinguished faculty and the latest technologies. We also 
prioritize holistic development through a diverse array of co-curricular and extracurricular activities, nurturing well-rounded 
individuals prepared to lead and innovate. 
M.H. Saboo Siddik College of Engineering is your destination to achieve your engineering aspirations, supported by highly 
qualiﬁed and experienced faculty and cutting-edge infrastructure. We are conﬁdent that our college will provide you with the 
ﬁnest education to excel in the ﬁeld of technology. Our students have consistently earned awards at national and international 
competitions, reﬂecting our pledge to nurturing talent and fostering success. We invite you to join our vibrant campus and 
embark on a journey of accomplishment. 
Welcome to Anjuman-I-Islam’s M.H. Saboo Siddik College of Engineering. We wish you the very best in your academic pursuits.
PRESIDENT’S DESK
Padma Awardee Dr. Zahir I. Kazi 
President, Anjuman-I-Islam
01

--- PAGE 4 ---

Padma Awardee Dr. Zahir I. Kazi
President
Mr. Mushtaq Antulay
Sr. Vice - President
Mr. Moiz M. Miyajiwala
Vice - President
Dr. Shaikh Abdullah
Vice - President
02
ANJUMAN-I-ISLAM’S LEADERSHIP
Adv. Aqeel Yusuf Hafiz
General Secretary
Mr. Shoaib M. I. Jamkhanawala
Joint Secretary
Dr. Aslam Khan
Executive Chairman, B.V.T.E.
Mr. Shohab Asmat Rais
Joint Secretary
Mr. Shakil Shaikh
Treasurer

--- PAGE 5 ---

Dear Students,
As Executive Chairman of the Board of Vocational and Technical Education (BVTE), I warmly welcome you to MHSSCOE, 
an institution dedicated to academic excellence, mentorship, and holistic student development.
At MHSSCOE, learning goes beyond textbooks. We foster critical thinking, collaborative problem-solving, and 
creativity. Our diverse programs, advanced labs, and strong industry ties oﬀer valuable hands-on experiences. 
Alongside research and innovation, we encourage active participation in student clubs and committees to enrich 
campus life.
A major milestone is our recent MoU with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), USA, enabling students to 
pursue MicroMasters online courses in Data Science, Supply Chain Management, and Finance. Similarly, our MoU with 
IIT Indore opens pathways to the University of Michigan, a leader in research. These partnerships enhance your 
academic credentials and provide accelerated routes into master's programs worldwide.
We also launched the Industry Mentoring Program to bridge academia and industry, equipping ﬁnal-year students 
with essential corporate skills and real-world problem-solving, in line with Anjuman-I-Islam's mission to develop 
responsible citizens.
Our Holistic Development Program promotes growth across cognitive, physical, emotional, and social areas, 
preparing you for success in all spheres. To further boost career readiness, the Professional Competency Development 
Cell (PCDC) oﬀers soft skills training led by industry experts.
As you begin this journey, I encourage you to seize every opportunity, engage fully, and use the resources available. 
Believe in your potential, pursue your goals with determination, and embrace diversity and shared experiences.
Wishing you the very best in your academic and personal growth.
BVTE CHAIRMAN’S DESK
Dr. Aslam Khan
Executive Chairman, BVTE, 
Anjuman I Islam
03

--- PAGE 6 ---

04
At M. H. Saboo Siddik College of Engineering, we take pride in being a beacon of knowledge, 
fostering holistic growth in both academic and professional spheres. Our institute is committed 
to nurturing students into well-formed civilians, equipped withthe technical proﬁciency, 
scientiﬁc expertise, and a humanitarian attituderequired to excel as future engineers.
To cultivate industry-ready professionals, we hold a team of highly qualiﬁed faculty and 
dedicated support staﬀ who work tirelessly to provide an enriching learning experience. Our 
relentless pursuit of academic excellence has led to numerous accolades at national and 
international levels. Among our many achievements are:
Ÿ Securing 2nd Position in Advanced Class Design and 3rd Position in Micro Class Design at 
the SAE competition held in Florida, USA (2015)
Ÿ Victories in prestigious hackathons organized by central and state governments
Ÿ A record-breaking placement package of INR 36.5 lakhs
Ÿ Several of our alumni, every year, pursuing higher studies from universities in USA, UK, 
Canada, and Germany and appearing for competitive exams like IAS, IPS
Ÿ GATE rank holders: Atif Khan(AIR-10), Numair Syed (AIR-148)
We take immense pride in our students' extraordinary accomplishments and their continued 
success. Also, the recent additions to our legacy of excellence, we have recently earned two 
prestigious national accreditations i.e. NAAC accreditation for ﬁve years and NBA accreditation 
for all four eligible branches. We are, also,immensely excited to introduce our new Master of 
Engineering (ME) program in Civil Engineering. We, at the same time,have increased intake in B.E. 
in Computer Engineering and CSE-AIML from 60 to 120.
We are pleased that you have chosen M. H. Saboo Siddik College of Engineering as your 
academic destination. By following in the footsteps of our illustrious alumni, we encourage you 
to strive for excellence, leverage the mentorship of our experienced and highly educated faculty, 
and carve a path of success that brings pride to yourself, your family, and our institution.
Your journey towards engineering excellence and a bright future begins here. 
DIRECTOR’S DESK
Dr. Mohiuddin Ahmed
Honorary Director, MHSSCOE

--- PAGE 7 ---

India has emerged as a global powerhouse in technical advancement with engineers playing a pivotal 
role in positioning the nation as a leader in innovation and entrepreneurship. Since 1984, Anjuman-I-
Islam's M.H. Saboo Siddik College of Engineering (MHSSCOE) has been an integral part of this 
transformative expedition, quietly yet signiﬁcantly contributing to India's engineering competence. 
Over nearly four decades of excellence, our institution has produced countless distinguished engineers 
who have shaped industries and driven progress all over the globe.
As a proud leader of one of the oldest and most esteemed engineering colleges under the University of 
Mumbai, I am privileged to carry forward this legacy made possible by the visionary leadership of 
Anjuman-I-Islam, Mumbai.
I extend my heartfelt welcome to all students joining M.H. Saboo Siddik College of Engineering. Our 
institution is home to a highly qualiﬁed, experienced, and dedicated facultyfraternity, committed to 
nurturing each student through innovative teaching methodologies, cutting-edge technology, and 
personalized mentorship.
We uphold the highest standards of academic excellence, a commitment that remained unwavering 
even during the challenges of the pandemic. Our rigorous teaching-learning practices, industry-
aligned curriculum, and holistic development initiatives ensure that students receive an education 
that is both theoretically robust and practically relevant.
At MHSSCOE, learning transcends textbooks. We promote innovation and critical thinking through:
Ÿ Workshops, seminars, and expert guest lectures by industry leaders.
Ÿ Industrial and site visits for real-world exposure.
Ÿ Exposure to national and international competitions and Hackathons, where our 
students have consistently excelled.
The achievements of our alumni stand as a testimony to the culture of excellence, with accolades earned 
at esteemed platforms worldwide.
As you step into this dynamic world of science and technology, MHSSCOE promises to be your 
facilitator for a rewarding career and a bright future. We invite you to dream big, innovate, and 
leave your mark on the world.
Welcome to M.H. Saboo Siddik College of Engineering...where legends are made!
Dr. Ganesh S. Kame
Ph.D. (IIT Bombay)
In-charge Principal, MHSSCOE
05
PRINCIPAL'S DESK

--- PAGE 8 ---

VISION 
To be an institute of global repute committed 
to the cause of nation building through 
technology based education.
MISSION
To be enabler of creation and dissemination 
of futuristic knowledge in technology 
through research and quality education.
06

--- PAGE 9 ---

Dr. Iqbal Ahmed Shaikh In-charge FE 
Established in 1984, the Department of Humanities and Applied Science caters to the teaching of basic Sciences and 
Humanities courses to the engineering students across branches. It lays a strong foundation of basic principles in various 
disciplines such as Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, PCE-I and II among learners. The faculty members are known for 
quality teaching as well as motivating students to learn beyond curriculum which develops a thorough knowledge of the 
subject among learners. As the department engages ﬁrst year students prominently, a special attention is paid to bring 
homogeneity among students who come from diﬀerent social, linguistic and ﬁnancial backgrounds. Our dedicated staﬀ 
members have been consistently successful in achieving this transformation through their sincere eﬀorts. 
Number of Laboratories: 03
1. Engg. Physics
2. Engg Chemistry
3. Computer Center
Dept. Achievements: 
● 5 Faculty members with PhD.
● 2 Faculty members NET qualiﬁed and 4 SET qualiﬁed 
● 28 (International, National) publications
● 30 books (for MU, SPPU, DBATU and GTU) solely authored by Dr. Iqbal Shaikh
Best Practices:
● Remedial lectures are taken on a regular basis.
● Staﬀ members are self motivated for higher studies and improvement in qualiﬁcations.
DEPARTMENT OF HUMANITIES & APPLIED SCIENCES
07

--- PAGE 10 ---

Dr. Ganesh S. Kame
Vision of the Institute:
To be an institute of global repute committed to the cause of nation building through technology based education.
Mission of the Institute:
To be enablers of creation and dissemination of futuristic knowledge in technology through research and quality 
education.
Vision of the Department:
To pioneer developments in Civil Engineering by creating professionals with Global Competence..
Mission of the Department:
To produce highly competent and morally responsible technocrats possessing strong leadership skills contributing to the 
cause of developments in Civil Engineering.
M1: To produce highly competent and morally responsible technocrats.
M2: To instill strong value based leadership skills..
M3: To contribute towards the advances in Civil Engineering
Program Educational Objectives:
PEO 1 To apply technical knowledge in civil engineering for resolving industrial challenges.
PEO 2 To generate employment through entrepreneurship and work eﬀectively in a multi disciplinary environment.
PEO 3 To understand the human, social and environmental context of the profession and contribute positively to the 
needs of individuals and society at large.
About the Civil Engineering Department: 
Established in 1984 and transformed into the Department of Civil Engineering in 2001, our department features eleven 
dedicated faculty members, including three PhDs and eight Postgraduates, with 15 to 36 years of experience. We 
emphasize high-quality teaching, practical problem-solving, and research-driven learning. Our mission focuses on 
ethical, sustainable technological advancement, fostering technical, leadership, and entrepreneurial skills among 
students. Faculty members contribute as advisors, referees, and expert speakers at various forums. Our students excel in 
national exams, technical competitions, and sports. We maintain strong alumni connections and actively promote 
initiatives like 'Cleanup Drive,' Swachh Bharat, and Jal Shakti through our biannual newsletter, TAMEER.
DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL ENGINEERING
08

--- PAGE 11 ---

Dr. Mohammed Ahmed, In-charge HOD 
Speaker Leading the Session while a large group of 
enthusiastic students listened attentively
Industrial Visit to Microsoft Oﬃce date
22nd February 2025
The Faces Behind Innovation - 
Hackathon 6.0 Participants
09
COMPUTER ENGINEERING
Our Vision:
To be a Centre of Excellence enhancing developments in Computer Engineering through Globally Relevant Professionals.
Our Mission:
To produce ethically competent and capable professionals who leverage advances in Computer Engineering for 
innovative solutions, through cutting-edge research and technology, that beneﬁts both Industry and Society.
Program Educational Objectives(PEOs):
PEO1: 
To engage in lifelong learning and professional development by being abreast with emerging technologies, 
trends, and best practices in Computer Engineering.
PEO2: 
To manage, collaborate, and lead eﬀectively with diverse stakeholders to meet needs of the industry.
PEO3: 
To ensure principles and practices that generate solutions in Computer Engineering and help decisions that 
reﬂect social responsibility and professional ethics. 
About the Computer Engineering Department
The Computer Engineering Department at M.H. Saboo Siddik College of Engineering, established in 1999, is a 
distinguished centre for academic and professional excellence. We are dedicated to shaping future leaders in Computer 
Engineering and Technology. Our students consistently excel in university exams and secure top placements in prestigious 
companies like Microsoft, TCS, Infosys, Capgemini, and Uniqlo. With a highly qualiﬁed faculty deeply involved in research, 
the department contributes to numerous publications and actively engages in curriculum development. Our vibrant 
academic environment encourages active student participation in competitions and seminars, fostering technical 
prowess and innovation. Strong industry connections have propelled our alumni into key positions, start-ups, and 
entrepreneurship, embodying our commitment to nurturing talent and innovation.

--- PAGE 12 ---

Dr Irfan Landge, In-charge HOD 
 
All India Rank of 148 in the GATE Examination
SIH 2024 1st Runner up
10
Since its inception in July 2020, the Computer Science & Engineering (AI & ML) Department has pursued academic 
excellence, innovation, and research in AI and Machine Learning. Starting with 60 students, the department nurtures future 
leaders in this ﬁeld. Our faculty members are involved in groundbreaking research, with ﬁve pursuing Ph.D.s and three 
working on a U.S. automotive project. The department is equipped with cutting-edge facilities, including i7 computers, 
advanced software, and fast internet for research. Two students were named Microsoft Student Ambassadors, and many 
secured internships and placements with top companies. Our students excel in hackathons, national competitions, and 
recruitments with ﬁrms like LTI, TCS, and Cognizant. Annually, we produce excellent results, with many students achieving 
perfect 10 pointers under the CBCGS scheme.
Department Vision:
 To impart the value based technical education using modern tools and techniques to pursue excellence in professional 
ﬁeld and to promote national integration.
Department Mission:
1) To create competent professionals in the ﬁeld of computer science engineering.
2) To promote research based education in the ﬁeld of Artiﬁcial Intelligence and Machine Learning
3) To meet challenges of modern industry & society.
4) To make students socially responsible to aid national integrity
Program Education Objective (PEO'S):
1) To educate students to be specialist in Artiﬁcial Intelligence & Machine Learning to meet the Universal growing 
demands in various ﬁelds like health care, economics, robotics, stock market, image processing, identiﬁcation of spam & 
non spam emails, cybercrime, preventive computer attacks etc.
2) To develop capability in students to innovate & develop new products for the beneﬁt of the society.
3) To cultivate managerial skills and team work
4) To develop ethics & social responsibility among students to become responsible citizen of nation.
COMPUTER SCIENCE & ENGINEERING
(Artiﬁcial Intelligence & Machine Learning)

--- PAGE 13 ---

Mrs. Samana Jafari, Co-ordinator
11
COMPUTER SCIENCE & ENGINEERING
(IoT & Cyber Security incl. Block Chain Technology)
Department Vision:
To develop ethical professionals in the ﬁeld of IOT and Cyber security committed to advancing global sustainability.
Department Mission:
To develop skilled technocrats through a robust curriculum, industry collaboration, and entrepreneurial initiatives, 
equipping them to create cost-eﬀective solutions and achieve employability in diverse ﬁelds.
 Program Education Objective (PEO'S):
1. Graduates will exhibit the fundamentals of Computer Science and Engineering with abilities to analyze problems, 
design and develop optimal solutions to address societal problems.
2. Graduates will apply knowledge of diverse and emerging areas of Computer Science and Engineering with modern 
tools to solve complex problems and possess entrepreneurial instincts, enabling them to innovate and lead in their 
professional careers.
3. Graduates will possess well-nurtured soft skills and ethical ideologies, contributing to overall development and 
enhancing their employability across multidisciplinary ﬁelds.
About the Department of Computer Science and Engineering (IoT, Cybersecurity, and Blockchain Technology
The Department of Computer Science and Engineering (Internet of Things and Cyber Security including Blockchain 
Technology) was established in 2022.
The curriculum focuses on emerging technologies, with a strong emphasis on Internet of Things, Cybersecurity, and 
Blockchain technology. Students receive hands-on experience and exposure to industry-relevant tools, preparing them to 
excel in multidisciplinary ﬁelds and making them globally employable technocrats.
The faculty actively engages in both academic and applied research, contributing to a signiﬁcant number of publications in 
journals and conferences. These publications reﬂect the department's commitment to advancing knowledge and 
innovation in these critical areas. Faculty members are also involved in various industry collaborations and consulting 
projects, fostering strong connections between academia and the outside world. 
With a strong foundation in both theoretical knowledge and practical skills, the department is poised to produce 
graduates who are not only technically proﬁcient but also capable of leading the charge in innovation and 
entrepreneurship in the rapidly changing tech world.

--- PAGE 14 ---

Er Abdul Sayeed, In-charge HOD 
12
ELECTRONICS AND TELE-COMMUNICATION
Vision:
To create a repute of prominence in Electronics and Telecommunication through World Class Professionals.
Mission:
To develop morally competent technocrats in Electronics and Telecommunication contributing in the growth and 
development of multi disciplinary ﬁelds through Research and Innovation.
M1: To develop morally competent technocrats in Electronics and Telecommunication.
M2: To contribute in the growth and development of multi disciplinary ﬁelds.
M3: To inculcate research and innovation for developing solutions.
Program Educational Objectives (PEOs):
1) Graduates will be able to apply principles and practices to real-time scenario.
2) Graduates will exhibit professional conduct and ethics while addressing challenges and solving problems of industry 
using recent technologies.
3) Graduates will ensure lifelong learning through professional development and continuous up-skilling.
About Department:
The Department of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering, established in 2008, aims to provide quality 
education and hands-on experience. With a focus on both hardware and software, students engage in projects, industry 
visits, and expert lectures. The experienced faculty covers diverse areas like Wireless Communication, Digital Signal 
Processing, and Machine Learning. The department boasts state-of-the-art labs, including Basic and Advanced 
Communication, DSP, and Satcom Labs. Students excel academically, secure top ranks, and participate in technical 
competitions and conferences. Active student organizations, like the IETE Student Chapter, enhance learning with 
workshops and seminars. The faculty's pursuit of Ph.D. degrees underscores a commitment to research and academic 
advancement.

--- PAGE 15 ---

Dr. Zainab Mirza HOD IT
13
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY 
About IT department:
Established in 2001–2002, the Department of Information Technology at MHSSCOE is dedicated to delivering excellence in 
technical education, industry-relevant skill development, and holistic student growth. The department is led by 
experienced faculty who provide strong academic and professional mentoring. It oﬀers hands-on, practical learning 
through collaborations with AWS Academy, Oracle Academy, an active ACM Student Chapter, and industry associations 
with Mastek, enabling students to earn certiﬁcations and gain exposure to real-world tools and technologies. The 
department has an excellent placement record, with students consistently recruited by top-tier companies such as LTI, TCS, 
Wipro, Teradata, and others. Our graduates thrive in high-demand domains like AI, data science, cloud computing, and 
cybersecurity, often securing attractive salary packages and global career opportunities. Students have also earned 
accolades in national competitions like Mastek Deep Blue, Smart India Hackathon, and ACM Mumbai Hackathon, reﬂecting 
their innovation and technical expertise. Through industry internships, expert-led workshops, certiﬁcation programs, and 
live projects, the department ensures students are industry-ready and equipped for leadership roles in the technology 
space.
Our Vision:
To be known as a Center of Excellence in building global IT professionals through cutting edge technologies.
Our Mission:
To produce global leaders driven by values capable of designing and delivering dynamic IT soulitins for real world 
problems.
Program Educational Objectives(PEOs):
PEO1: 
To implement eﬀective solutions to real world IT problems using appropriate tools and techniques.
PEO2: 
To possess managerial and entrepreneurial skills with cross functional competencies leading to sustainable 
competitive advantages.
PEO3: 
To be able to exhibit professional and ethical behavior and be prepared for lifelong learning and personal 
development.

--- PAGE 16 ---

Dr. Nilesh Ghongade, In-charge HOD 
14
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
Vision and Mission of the Mechanical Engineering Department
 Vision: To be a center of eminence producing World-Class technocrats in Mechanical Engineering 
Mission: To inculcate technical knowledge and professional competencies in potential ethical leaders, so as to enable 
pragmatic solutions to complex Mechanical Engineering problems.
Program Education Outcome the Mechanical Engineering Department
PEO 1: Identify and solve complex engineering problems by applying the relevant knowledge and skills
PEO 2: Explore opportunities and develop engineering solutions through research for the beneﬁt of society at large
PEO 3: Derive motivation through lifelong learning and exhibit high ethical standards in all professional endeavors
Department of Mechanical Engineering established in the year 2007 and accredited by NBA from the Academic Year 2024-
25 for three years. Mechanical Engineering is one of the most versatile and foundational branches of engineering, oﬀering a 
wide range of career opportunities. It plays a pivotal role in shaping the future of industries such as automotive, aerospace, 
energy, robotics, manufacturing, and many more. The Department of Mechanical Engineering has a prominent history of 
signiﬁcant achievements, the department remains focused and committed to advancing technological knowledge and 
nurturing future-ready engineers. The department has a team of highly qualiﬁed and experienced faculty members who 
are dedicated to delivering high-quality technical education that encourages curiosity, creativity, and a problem-solving 
mindset amongst students. 
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING - AUTOMOBILE
M.H. Saboo Siddik College of Engineering, Mumbai, proudly announces the Launch of a pioneering Mechanical 
Engineering Automobile program for the Academic Year 2024-25. As the ﬁrst in the University of Mumbai to oﬀer this 
specialized course, the program is designed to meet the growing demands of the automotive industry. It emphasizes on 
advanced technologies in Electric, Hybrid, Hydrogen, and Autonomous Vehicles, aligning with government initiatives and 
policies aimed at positioning India as a leader in electric vehicle manufacturing. This forward-thinking curriculum will 
equip students with cutting-edge knowledge and skills, driving innovation in the rapidly evolving automotive sector and 
opening up new career opportunities.
Dr. Shaikh Javed Habib, HOD MEA

--- PAGE 17 ---

Dr. Tufail A. Shaikh, Librarian
15
LIBRARY
The Central Library of Anjuman-I-Islam’s M.H. Saboo Siddik College of Engineering plays a crucial role in supporting 
the institute's mission to provide quality technical education. Known as the Library or Knowledge Resource Center 
(KRC), it serves faculty, students, and researchers in engineering and applied sciences. The library oﬀers a rich 
collection of 41,545 books and e-books, 48 print journals, 461 electronic journals (ASCE, Springer, IEEE), and e-
resources in various engineering disciplines, including civil, mechanical, electronics & telecommunication, computer 
science, information technology, and artiﬁcial intelligence. It subscribes to online databases like IEEE, SpringerLink, 
IET SciTech, Cambridge, Oxford University Press, McGraw Hill, Cengage, ProQuest, Taylor & Francis, Science Direct, 
Pearson, Videeya, and DELNET. The college is a member of the NDLI Club. The library is fully automated with SLIM21 
software and provides services such as WebOPAC, reprographic services, and digital device (MacBook laptop) 
issuance. Access to e-resources is available both on and oﬀ campus. The library is open Monday to Saturday, with the 
Reading and Reference Room available from 8:30 A.M. to 5:00 P.M. (closed on 2nd & 4th Saturday, Sunday, and 
government holidays).
Reference Services and facilities 
Ÿ Periodical section opens to all users.
Ÿ Reprographic facilities available.
Ÿ Reading and reference facilities available.
Ÿ 15 desktop computer terminals with internet and multimedia facilities are available for users to access the 
college's subscribed e-resources.
Ÿ Remote XS is the MHSSCE library webpage and provides access to digital library resources for users on and oﬀ-
campus: (https://mhsscelibrary.remotexs.in/home). Remote XS Remote Access provides secure access to the 
college's e-resources, bringing them under one umbrella, including subscribed e-journals, e-books, and other e-
content, all of which can be accessed anytime, anywhere, with full-text downloads.
Ÿ NPTEL Video lecture facility
Ÿ The Digital Learning Resource Center (DLRC) and library issue MacBook laptops to EWS category students of the 
institute.
1. 
Reference Books 
6885 
2. 
Dictionaries 
30 
3. 
Handbooks 
260 
4. 
Encyclopedias 
55 
5. 
Word Atlas 
01 
6. 
Total Bound Volumes of Journal/Periodicals
 
171 
7. 
Educational CD’s/DVD’s 
1200

--- PAGE 18 ---

Dr. Sha Husain Maghrabi- Head (T&P)
16
TRAINING AND PLACEMENT OFFICE
ABOUT US:
The Training and Placement department provides a launch pad for students to make it to the best organizations in the ﬁelds of software, 
core industries, management etc. The Giants in the corporate world visit the campus on a regular basis with enviable recruitment oﬀers. 
Our students have lived up to the expectations of organizations that visit the campus looking for bright candidates to take up important 
and challenging responsibilities at their workplace. They maintain an excellent rapport with a wide spectrum of companies spread 
across various industry sectors. We have maintained an aura of culture and legacy over the decades of innovative growth and excellence. 
Having stamped its class in academic and corporate circles, our students on the most challenging and demanding roles in industry, India 
and abroad. This is testimony to the trust and belief that the industry has bestowed in us for years and more importantly is a commitment 
to deliver the best consistently. Over the years, the placement cell has maintained good and strong relationship with Industries across 
the country and as a result has built up an impressive placement record both in terms of percentage of registered students placed as well 
as the number of companies visiting the campus. The idea of creating better technologists, better leaders and importantly better citizens 
suﬀuses through the teaching pedagogy of the curriculum. We expose the best minds we have, to the outer world that waits to test and 
absorb the talent radiating from every individual. The institute also gives equal importance to extracurricular activities with a focus on 
the overall development of its students to equip them to face the challenges of the highly competitive corporate world.
Activities of TPO: 
How pre-placement activity takes place:
 
A) Campus recruitment Training
 
B) Aptitude Training
 
C) Soft Skill Training
 
D) Professional Counselor / Motivational activities
 
E) PCDC (Professional Competence Development Cell) for B.E Students
BEST PRACTICES
 
Internship programmes at reputed places like NIC, MMRC, RCF, TIFR.
 
 Regular counseling sessions from expert counselor and life coaches for the students to balance their personal
 
and professional life.
 
Every year, Students are trained on Aptitude & Soft Skills to make them industry ready.
 
Mock Sessions – Every year more than 50 Experts from various Industries guide our Pre-Final year Students on 
 
Resume Building, Interview preparation etc.
 
Scholarship Assistance is provided in certain cases.
HOW WE TRAIN:
S.E. - TPO Connect
1) Orientation Program
2) Industry Expectations
3) Need of time (Academic Skills)
B.E. -Company Speciﬁc Training / Alumni Connect
1) Preparing Students for Placements
2) Mock Session
3) Alumni Talk
T.E.-Training Programs
1) Aptitude and Soft Skill Training
2) Technical Training
3) Programming Training
4) Hands-on Practice of Coding
5) Guest Lecture
6) Technical Talk
7) Webinars by industry experts

--- PAGE 19 ---

NOTABLE ALUMNI
Sr. No.
Name 
Designation 
 
Organization 
Year of Passing 
 
Branch
34.
SANTOSH
Deputy General Manager
Piaggio Pune
1997
Automobile
35.
AVINASH BHIDE
Sr Manager
Kohler India Corporation
1999
Automobile
36.
ZAHEER NANJI
Director, Technology
 Management
NTT DATA Global Technology Pvt. Ltd
1999
Electronics
37.
AVINASH RAO
Branch Head
Kotak Mahindra
2000
Automobile
38.
ASIF IQBAL KACHWALA
Vice President
J P Morgan
2000
Construction
39.
HASAN SABUWALA
National Head
Forex and Derivatives Sale
2000
Electronics
40.
SUDHANSHU SHARMA
C E O
Residuary Pvt. Ltd
2002
Auto
41.
MOHAMMED KABIR SHEIKH
Strategic Advisor | GTM
Block Chain AI Meta Web3 FinTech
2003
Computer
42.
NORMAN MOSES JOSEPH
General Technical Director
Walt Disney Animation Studios
2005
Computer
43.
ANSARI AHTESHAM ANWAR
Vice President
JP Morgan Chase
2005
Computer
44.
MOHAMMED SUHAIL F MEMON
DIRECTOR
EDW
2006
IT
45.
SHAHEENA LOKHANDWALA
Program Manager
Google USA
2007
Computer
46.
NARESH SHRIDHAR CHIKANE
Director, IT
Equinix Mumbai
2007
Computer
47.
IRSHAD CHOUHAN
Sr. Solutions Architect
Amazon Web Services (AWS)
2007
Computer
48.
MERAJ SAYED
Senior Manager
Morgan Stanley
2007
Computer
49.
MOHAMMED ALI SHAIKH
Director - Product
 Management
Golden Source
2007
IT
50.
AASIM SURVE
Front Oﬃce Solution
 Designer &amp; Developer
Macquarie Group
2007
Computer
51.
FAIAZ MOHAMED
 Marketing Director
Creative Percept FZCO, UAE
2008
Computer
52.
MURSHID KHAN
Director
UBS
2008
Computer
53.
TABISH SANGAR
Chief Information Oﬃcer
Wellness Forever
2009
Computer
54.
FAHAD AZAD
Technical Director
OTSAW Singapore
2009
Automobile
55.
KAMIL KHAN
Co-Founder aZifup.com
Zifup.com
2009
Computer
56.
MAGAR JAFER SHABBIR
Senior Consultant
Deloitte US
2010
Computer
57.
AMMAR GITHAM 
Consultant
Fusion Systems Japan
2011
Computer
58.
BIYA DANISH GULAM HABIB
SALMA
Senior Performance DBA 
in Teradata
Teradata
2011
IT
59.
KAYOMARS BATLIWALLA
Software development
Engineer II
Amazon
2012
IT
60.
GHULAM JILANI QUADRI
Doctoral Fellow
University of South Florida
2012
Computer
61.
CHAPPALWALA AQSA MOHD ASIF
Lead Oracle Database
 Administrator 
Capgemini
2013
IT
62.
MOHAMMED SOHAIL SHAIKH
Founder and CTO
Silent coders
2014
Information
 Technology
63.
HAIDARALI NADIR SHAH
Software Developer
UNIQLO, Japan
2019
Computer
Sr. No.
Name 
Designation 
 
Organization 
 Year of Passing 
 
Branch
01. 
ATUL KULKARNI 
 
Director
Atos India 
1989 
Production
02. 
JAMAL MANSOORI 
GM 
Mahindra and Mahindra 
1989 
Electronics
03
RAMCHANDRA KENKAR
Director 
Bio Tech Envirocare
1989 
Production 
04. 
SHEILA RODRIGUES 
Vice President Operations
Emirates Airline
1989
Production
05. 
ROHAN RODRIGUES
GM
Mahindra Tractors Chennai
1989
Production
06.
PRAVIN CHAOUDHARI
Executive Director
Kansai NEROLAC paints Ltd
1989
Production
07.
PUSHKAR H BHOBE
Deputy GM
Mahindra & Mahindra Nasik
1989
Production
08.
SUNIL DESAI
Director
Designcell CAD CAM Solutions PVT Ltd
1990
Production
09.
IRFAN KAZI
Chief Information Oﬃcer
SEBI CAP ventures Ltd.
1990
Electronics
10.
RAVINDRA KADAM
Vice President
Runwal Development
1990
Construction
11.
RASHID R MERCHANT
Vice President
Ready Mix India (Prism Cement Ltd)
1990
Construction
12.
JAYDEEP DESAI
Proprietor
Deep Construction
1990
Construction
13.
RAJENDRA SURVE
Associate Vice President
Mespack India
1990
Production
14.
PRASHANT TANANG
Founder
Trans Speciﬁc Software
1990
Construction
15.
BURHANI RAHIL KAMRUDDIN
Chief Information Oﬃcer
Essar Oil UK Limited
1990
Electronics
16.
DR. HANIF KANJER
Dean
Rustomjee Business School & 
Alumni London School of Economics 
1990
Production
17.
SHAIKH AJAZ AHMED
Deputy Project Manager
Al Qahatani Pipe Coating Industries
1991
Production
18.
BOMAN RUSTOM IRANI
Chairman and MD
1991
Production
19.
HUZEFA SAMPLEWALA
Director
Woodware furniture
1991
Production
20.
MAHESH TENDULKAR
Director
Concrete Research
1992
Construction
21.
ANAND MADHUKAR
Director
Ecotech Engineering
1992
Construction
22.
ZAFAR SIDDIQUI
Director
Blue Canyon Realty
1992
Construction
23.
SALIM JAMADAR
Associate Vice President
Bharat Forge Ltd
1993
Production
24.
FARID GHOLE
Executive Group Manager
Rolta India
1995
Production
25.
ARVIND BHOORMAL
GM
Marathon Realty Ltd
1995
Construction
26.
UDAIPURWALA ANIS ABBAS
Senior Lean Agile 
Capability Coach
Emirates Airlines
UAE
1996
Electronics
27.
ASLAM KHAN
Chairman and MD
Octaware Technologies
1996
Electronics
28.
FAISAL GADIALLY
Partner
PWC USA
1996
Electronics
29.
SHABBIR BHARMAL
Chief Product Oﬃcer
Leidos USA
1996
Electronics
30.
DR. APURVA MODY
Founder and CEO
AiRANACULUS
1996
Electronics
31.
KAMISH MIRZA
Head Digital Enablement 
of Supply Chain
Ericsson
1996
Production
32.
MUFADDAL A CHUNIA
Vice President
Emerging Asian Markets
1996
Automobile
33.
SHAHID MIRZA
Head Logistic IE and IT
Apollo Tyres
1996
Production
Rustomjee Group
17

--- PAGE 20 ---

Dr. Asarar Pathan, In-charge Sports
SPORTS FACILITIES
18

--- PAGE 21 ---

19
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
Eligibility Criteria for Maharashtra State Candidates:
A. U. G. Course
 
The Candidate should:
i) Be a citizen of India.
ii) Passed HSC or its equivalent examination with Physics and Mathematics as compulsory subjects along with one of the Chemistry or Biotechnology or 
Biology or Technical Vocational subjects and should have obtained at least 45% marks (at least 40% marks, in case of Backward Class categories and Persons 
with Disability belonging to Maharashtra State only) in the above subjects taken together; and The candidate should have appeared in all the subjects in CET 
and should have obtained non-zero positive score in CET conducted by the Competent Authority.
OR
iii) Passed Diploma in Engineering and Technology and should have obtained at least 45% marks (at least 40% marks, in case of Backward Class categories 
and Persons with Disability belonging to Maharashtra State only.
B P. G. Course
 
B. E. Civil / Construction and valid GATE score.
For further details, please visit 
https://cetcell.mahacet.org

--- PAGE 22 ---

20
SEATS DISTRIBUTION FOR UNDER GRADUATE & POST GRADUATE COURSES 
Institute Level
20%
Sr.
No.
Course
CAP Level
Total 
Intake
Minority 
Quota
51%
Open 
Quota
29%
-
24
2.
3.
4.
Civil Engineering
Computer Engineering
Computer Science Engineering
(Artiﬁcial Intelligence & 
Machine Learning)
12
31
17
60
Computer Science & 
Engineering (IoT & Cyber 
Security including Block Chain 
Technology.
31
29
60
61
35
120
1.
12
-
12
5.
6.
31
17
60
Electronics & 
Telecommunication 
Engineering
Information Technology
15
15
30
Mechanical Engineering
7.
31
17
60
24
61
35
120
-
15
15
30
Mechanical Engineering 
Automobile
8.
UG COURSE
PG COURSE
MASTER OF ENGINEERING
 IN CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING
 & MANAGEMENT
TOTAL INTAKE: 18

--- PAGE 23 ---

i. 
The students while studying in the college, if found indulging in any anti-national activities contrary to the provisions of Acts and Laws enforced by Government/Management or in 
any activity contrary to rules of discipline, will be liable to be expelled from the college without any notice by the Principal of the college.
ii. 
Following points are interpreted as Indiscipline in College Campus
 
a) 
Entry in the campus without I card/kit.
 
b) 
Eating pan, gutka or chewing gum and spitting in the campus.
 
c) 
Using staﬀ wash room.
 
d) 
Running, shouting and playing in class room, lab and corridor.
 
e) 
Any brawl among the students.
 
f) 
Showing impertinence to the faculty member.
 
g) 
Damaging college assets or scripting on walls/benches.
 
h) 
Publicly display of aﬀection.
 
i) 
Honking on the ground.
 
j) 
Any gesture which is interpreted as tarnishing image and secular thread of college at any stage and through any media.
Dress Code for Boys: No T-shirts with any objectionable message, no long hair or mushroom cut hair style, no short pants, no bracelet/wristlet/armlet.
Dress Code for Girls: No dress which disrupts the diﬃdence of women, such as T-shirts, skin- tight jeans and deep-neck kurta (jeans/pants are allowed only with kurta).
CONDUCT AND DISCIPLINE
Maharashtra Prohibition of Ragging Act 1999 and Prevention and Prohibition of Ragging (Appendix-12 published in AICTE Approval Process Handbook 2019-20) and their amendments 
th
which may be published from time to time. The Maharashtra Prohibition of Ragging Act 1999, which is in an eﬀect from 15 May, 1999 has the following provisions for Action against 
Ragging:
i. 
Ragging within or outside of any educational institution is prohibited.
ii. 
Whosoever directly or indirectly commits, participates in, abets or propagates ragging within or outside any educational institution shall, on conviction, be punished with 
imprisonment for a term up to 2 years and/or penalty, which may extend to Ten thousand rupees.
iii. 
Any student convicted of an oﬀence of ragging shall be dismissed from the educational institution and such student shall not be admitted in any other educational institution for a 
period of ﬁve years from the date of order of such dismissal.
iv. 
Whenever any student or as the case may be, the parent or guardian or a teacher of an educational institution complains, in writing of ragging to the head of the educational 
institution, the head of the educational institution shall, without prejudice to the foregoing provisions, within seven days of the receipt of the complaint, enquire into the matter 
mentioned in the complaint and if, prima facie, it is found true, suspend the student who is accused of the oﬀence and shall immediately forward the complaint to the police station 
having jurisdiction over the area in which the educational institution is located for further action. Where, on enquiry by the head of the educational institution, it is found that prima 
facie there is no substance, in the complaint received; he/she shall intimate the fact, inwriting, to the complainant. The decision of the head of the educational institution shall be ﬁnal.
v. 
If the Head of the educational institution fails or neglects to act in the manner speciﬁed in section "d" above when a complaint of ragging is made, such person shall be deemed to have 
abetted the oﬀence and shall, on conviction, be punished as provided for in section "b" above.
vi. 
Undertaking from the candidate shall be taken while admitting the candidate in the Institute.
vii. Any Acts or its amendments which may be published from time to time by AICTE, Government or Judgments by Hon. Supreme Court of India, Hon. High Court of Bombay etc. Will be 
applicable to Candidates and Institutions covered under these rules of admission.
viii. If any of the statement made in application form or any information supplied, or any certiﬁcate(s) submitted by the candidate in connection with his or her admission is later at any 
time, found to be false or incorrect, his or her admission will be cancelled, fees forfeited and he or she may be expelled from the college by the Principal/Director. An appeal against the 
order of expulsion, however, may be sent within 7 days to the Director of Technical Education, Maharashtra State, Mumbai, whose decision in such cases will be ﬁnal. Such candidates 
are also liable for penal action as per the provisions in the law.
ANTI RAGGING RULES

--- PAGE 24 ---

8, Saboo Siddik Polytechnic Road,
Post Box No. 4627, Byculla,
Mumbai - 400008.
+91-22-23012922
+91-22-23051356
+91-22-23082640
aimhssce@gmail.com
mhssce@yahoo.in
www.mhssce.ac.in
Designed & Printed by A.I’s Adabi Printing Press, Mumbai - 400008. Mob.: 9821 80 26 76
ANJUMAN-I-ISLAM’S
M. H. SABOO SIDDIK 
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
Advancing Knowledge, Building Careers
CONTACT DETAILS